questions/align-center-middle.question.md, before:

---
title: "How do I center a widget in a screen?"
alt_titles:
  - "centre a widget"
  - "centre widgets"
  - "center a control"
  - "centre a control"
  - "center controls"
  - "centre controls"
---

To center a widget within a container use
[`align`](https://textual.textualize.io/styles/align/). But remember that
`align` works on the *children* of a container, it isn't something you use
on the child you want centered.

For example, here's an app that shows a `Button` in the middle of a
`Screen`:

```python
from textual.app import App, ComposeResult
from textual.widgets import Button

class ButtonApp(App):

    CSS = """
    Screen {
        align: center middle;
    }
    """

    def compose(self) -> ComposeResult:
        yield Button("PUSH ME!")

if __name__ == "__main__":
    ButtonApp().run()
```

If you use the above on multiple widgets, you'll find they appear to
"left-align" in the center of the screen, like this:

```
+-----+
|     |
+-----+

+---------+
|         |
+---------+

+---------------+
|               |
+---------------+
```

If you want them more like this:

```
     +-----+
     |     |
     +-----+

   +---------+
   |         |
   +---------+

+---------------+
|               |
+---------------+
```

the best approach is to wrap each widget in a [`Center`
container](https://textual.textualize.io/api/containers/#textual.containers.Center)
that individually centers it. For example:

```python
from textual.app import App, ComposeResult
from textual.containers import Center
from textual.widgets import Button

class ButtonApp(App):

    CSS = """
    Screen {
        align: center middle;
    }
    """

    def compose(self) -> ComposeResult:
        yield Center(Button("PUSH ME!"))
        yield Center(Button("AND ME!"))
        yield Center(Button("ALSO PLEASE PUSH ME!"))
        yield Center(Button("HEY ME ALSO!!"))

if __name__ == "__main__":
    ButtonApp().run()
```

Commit message:

Link the centring FAQ to the HOWTO
Keeping it as a FAQ makes sense, as it means that FAQtory will be able to
point to it, but now that we have the HOWTO, and it's more comprehensive, it
makes sense to direct the reader in that direction if they want something
more involved.

questions/align-center-middle.question.md, after:

---
title: "How do I center a widget in a screen?"
alt_titles:
  - "centre a widget"
  - "centre widgets"
  - "center a control"
  - "centre a control"
  - "center controls"
  - "centre controls"
---

!!! tip

    See [*How To Center Things*](https://textual.textualize.io/how-to/center-things/) in the
    Textual documentation for a more comprensive answer to this question.

To center a widget within a container use
[`align`](https://textual.textualize.io/styles/align/). But remember that
`align` works on the *children* of a container, it isn't something you use
on the child you want centered.

For example, here's an app that shows a `Button` in the middle of a
`Screen`:

```python
from textual.app import App, ComposeResult
from textual.widgets import Button

class ButtonApp(App):

    CSS = """
    Screen {
        align: center middle;
    }
    """

    def compose(self) -> ComposeResult:
        yield Button("PUSH ME!")

if __name__ == "__main__":
    ButtonApp().run()
```

If you use the above on multiple widgets, you'll find they appear to
"left-align" in the center of the screen, like this:

```
+-----+
|     |
+-----+

+---------+
|         |
+---------+

+---------------+
|               |
+---------------+
```

If you want them more like this:

```
     +-----+
     |     |
     +-----+

   +---------+
   |         |
   +---------+

+---------------+
|               |
+---------------+
```

the best approach is to wrap each widget in a [`Center`
container](https://textual.textualize.io/api/containers/#textual.containers.Center)
that individually centers it. For example:

```python
from textual.app import App, ComposeResult
from textual.containers import Center
from textual.widgets import Button

class ButtonApp(App):

    CSS = """
    Screen {
        align: center middle;
    }
    """

    def compose(self) -> ComposeResult:
        yield Center(Button("PUSH ME!"))
        yield Center(Button("AND ME!"))
        yield Center(Button("ALSO PLEASE PUSH ME!"))
        yield Center(Button("HEY ME ALSO!!"))

if __name__ == "__main__":
    ButtonApp().run()
```
