docs/guide/command_palette.md, before:

# Command Palette

Textual apps have a built-in *command palette*, which gives users a quick way to access certain functionality within your app.

In this chapter we will explain what a command palette is, how to use it, and how you can add your own commands.

## Launching the command palette

Press ++ctrl++ + `\` (ctrl and backslash) to invoke the command palette screen, which contains of a single input widget.
Textual will suggest commands as you type in that input.
Press ++up++ or ++down++ to select a command from the list, and ++enter++ to invoke it.

Commands are looked up via a *fuzzy* search, which means Textual will show commands that match the keys you type in the same order, but not necessarily at the start of the command.
For instance the "Toggle light/dark mode" command will be shown if you type "to" (for **to**ggle), but you could also type "dm" (to match **d**ark **m**ode).
This scheme allows the user to quickly get to a particular command with a minimum of key-presses.


=== "Command Palette"

    ```{.textual path="docs/examples/guide/command_palette/command01.py" press="ctrl+backslash"}
    ```

=== "Command Palette after 't'"

    ```{.textual path="docs/examples/guide/command_palette/command01.py" press="ctrl+backslash,t"}
    ```

=== "Command Palette after 'td'"

    ```{.textual path="docs/examples/guide/command_palette/command01.py" press="ctrl+backslash,t,d"}
    ```



## Default commands

Textual apps have the following commands enabled by default:

- `"Toggle light/dark mode"`
  This will toggle between light and dark mode, by setting `App.dark` to either `True` or `False`.
- `"Quit the application"`
  Quits the application. The equivalent of pressing ++ctrl+C++.
- `"Play the bell"`
  Plays the terminal bell, by calling [`App.bell`][textual.app.App.bell].


## Command providers

To add your own command(s) to the command palette, define a [`command.Provider`][textual.command.Provider] class then add it to the [`COMMANDS`][textual.app.App.COMMANDS] class var on your `App` class.

Let's look at a simple example which adds the ability to open Python files via the command palette.

The following example will display a blank screen initially, but if you bring up the command palette and start typing the name of a Python file, it will show the command to open it.

!!! tip

    If you are running that example from the repository, you may want to add some additional Python files to see how the examples works with multiple files.


  ```python title="command01.py" hl_lines="12-40 46"
  --8<-- "docs/examples/guide/command_palette/command01.py"
  ```

  1. This method is called when the command palette is first opened.
  2. Called on each key-press.
  3. Get a [Matcher][textual.fuzzy.Matcher] instance to compare against hits.
  4. Use the matcher to get a score.
  5. Highlights matching letters in the search.
  6. Adds our custom command provider and the default command provider.

There are three methods you can override in a command provider: [`startup`][textual.command.Provider.startup], [`search`][textual.command.Provider.search], and [`shutdown`][textual.command.Provider.shutdown].
All of these methods should be coroutines (`async def`). Only `search` is required, the other methods are optional.
Let's explore those methods in detail.

### startup method

The [`startup`][textual.command.Provider.startup] method is called when the command palette is opened.
You can use this method as way of performing work that needs to be done prior to searching.
In the example, we use this method to get the Python (.py) files in the current working directory.

### search method

The [`search`][textual.command.Provider.search] method is responsible for finding results (or *hits*) that match the user's input.
This method should *yield* [`Hit`][textual.command.Hit] objects for any command that matches the `query` argument.

Exactly how the matching is implemented is up to the author of the command provider, but we recommend using the builtin fuzzy matcher object, which you can get by calling [`matcher`][textual.command.Provider.matcher].
This object has a [`match()`][textual.fuzzy.Matcher.match] method which compares the user's search term against the potential command and returns a *score*.
A score of zero means *no hit*, and you can discard the potential command.
A score of above zero indicates the confidence in the result, where 1 is an exact match, and anything lower indicates a less confident match.

The [`Hit`][textual.command.Hit] contains information about the score (used in ordering) and how the hit should be displayed, and an optional help string.
It also contains a callback, which will be run if the user selects that command.

In the example above, the callback is a lambda which calls the `open_file` method in the example app.

!!! note

    Unlike most other places in Textual, errors in command provider will not *exit* the app.
    This is a deliberate design decision taken to prevent a single broken `Provider` class from making the command palette unusable.
    Errors in command providers will be logged to the [console](./devtools.md).

### shutdown method

The [`shutdown`][textual.command.Provider.shutdown] method is called when the command palette is closed.
You can use this as a hook to gracefully close any objects you created in [`startup`][textual.command.Provider.startup].

## Screen commands

You can also associate commands with a screen by adding a `COMMANDS` class var to your Screen class.

Commands defined on a screen are only considered when that screen is active.
You can use this to implement commands that are specific to a particular screen, that wouldn't be applicable everywhere in the app.

## Disabling the command palette

The command palette is enabled by default.
If you would prefer not to have the command palette, you can set `ENABLE_COMMAND_PALETTE = False` on your app class.

Here's an app class with no command palette:

```python
class NoPaletteApp(App):
    ENABLE_COMMAND_PALETTE = False
```

Commit message:

Mention the discover method in the docs

docs/guide/command_palette.md, after:

# Command Palette

Textual apps have a built-in *command palette*, which gives users a quick way to access certain functionality within your app.

In this chapter we will explain what a command palette is, how to use it, and how you can add your own commands.

## Launching the command palette

Press ++ctrl++ + `\` (ctrl and backslash) to invoke the command palette screen, which contains of a single input widget.
Textual will suggest commands as you type in that input.
Press ++up++ or ++down++ to select a command from the list, and ++enter++ to invoke it.

Commands are looked up via a *fuzzy* search, which means Textual will show commands that match the keys you type in the same order, but not necessarily at the start of the command.
For instance the "Toggle light/dark mode" command will be shown if you type "to" (for **to**ggle), but you could also type "dm" (to match **d**ark **m**ode).
This scheme allows the user to quickly get to a particular command with a minimum of key-presses.


=== "Command Palette"

    ```{.textual path="docs/examples/guide/command_palette/command01.py" press="ctrl+backslash"}
    ```

=== "Command Palette after 't'"

    ```{.textual path="docs/examples/guide/command_palette/command01.py" press="ctrl+backslash,t"}
    ```

=== "Command Palette after 'td'"

    ```{.textual path="docs/examples/guide/command_palette/command01.py" press="ctrl+backslash,t,d"}
    ```



## Default commands

Textual apps have the following commands enabled by default:

- `"Toggle light/dark mode"`
  This will toggle between light and dark mode, by setting `App.dark` to either `True` or `False`.
- `"Quit the application"`
  Quits the application. The equivalent of pressing ++ctrl+C++.
- `"Play the bell"`
  Plays the terminal bell, by calling [`App.bell`][textual.app.App.bell].


## Command providers

To add your own command(s) to the command palette, define a [`command.Provider`][textual.command.Provider] class then add it to the [`COMMANDS`][textual.app.App.COMMANDS] class var on your `App` class.

Let's look at a simple example which adds the ability to open Python files via the command palette.

The following example will display a blank screen initially, but if you bring up the command palette and start typing the name of a Python file, it will show the command to open it.

!!! tip

    If you are running that example from the repository, you may want to add some additional Python files to see how the examples works with multiple files.


  ```python title="command01.py" hl_lines="12-40 46"
  --8<-- "docs/examples/guide/command_palette/command01.py"
  ```

  1. This method is called when the command palette is first opened.
  2. Called on each key-press.
  3. Get a [Matcher][textual.fuzzy.Matcher] instance to compare against hits.
  4. Use the matcher to get a score.
  5. Highlights matching letters in the search.
  6. Adds our custom command provider and the default command provider.

There are four methods you can override in a command provider: [`startup`][textual.command.Provider.startup], [`search`][textual.command.Provider.search], [`discover`][textual.command.Provider.discover] and [`shutdown`][textual.command.Provider.shutdown].
All of these methods should be coroutines (`async def`). Only `search` is required, the other methods are optional.
Let's explore those methods in detail.

### startup method

The [`startup`][textual.command.Provider.startup] method is called when the command palette is opened.
You can use this method as way of performing work that needs to be done prior to searching.
In the example, we use this method to get the Python (.py) files in the current working directory.

### search method

The [`search`][textual.command.Provider.search] method is responsible for finding results (or *hits*) that match the user's input.
This method should *yield* [`Hit`][textual.command.Hit] objects for any command that matches the `query` argument.

Exactly how the matching is implemented is up to the author of the command provider, but we recommend using the builtin fuzzy matcher object, which you can get by calling [`matcher`][textual.command.Provider.matcher].
This object has a [`match()`][textual.fuzzy.Matcher.match] method which compares the user's search term against the potential command and returns a *score*.
A score of zero means *no hit*, and you can discard the potential command.
A score of above zero indicates the confidence in the result, where 1 is an exact match, and anything lower indicates a less confident match.

The [`Hit`][textual.command.Hit] contains information about the score (used in ordering) and how the hit should be displayed, and an optional help string.
It also contains a callback, which will be run if the user selects that command.

In the example above, the callback is a lambda which calls the `open_file` method in the example app.

!!! note

    Unlike most other places in Textual, errors in command provider will not *exit* the app.
    This is a deliberate design decision taken to prevent a single broken `Provider` class from making the command palette unusable.
    Errors in command providers will be logged to the [console](./devtools.md).

### discover method

The [`discover`][textual.command.Provider.discover] method is responsible for providing results (or *hits*) that should be shown to the user when the command palette input is empty;
this is to aid in command discoverability.

`discover` is similar to `search` but with the difference that no search value is passed to it, and it should *yield* instances of [`DiscoveryHit`][textual.command.DiscoveryHit].
There is no matching and no match score is needed.
The [`DiscoveryHit`][textual.command.DiscoveryHit] contains information about how the hit should be displayed, and an optional help string;
discovery hits are sorted in ascending alphabetical order.
It also contains a callback, which will be run if the user selects that command.

### shutdown method

The [`shutdown`][textual.command.Provider.shutdown] method is called when the command palette is closed.
You can use this as a hook to gracefully close any objects you created in [`startup`][textual.command.Provider.startup].

## Screen commands

You can also associate commands with a screen by adding a `COMMANDS` class var to your Screen class.

Commands defined on a screen are only considered when that screen is active.
You can use this to implement commands that are specific to a particular screen, that wouldn't be applicable everywhere in the app.

## Disabling the command palette

The command palette is enabled by default.
If you would prefer not to have the command palette, you can set `ENABLE_COMMAND_PALETTE = False` on your app class.

Here's an app class with no command palette:

```python
class NoPaletteApp(App):
    ENABLE_COMMAND_PALETTE = False
```
