docs/api/command_palette.md, before:

!!! tip "Added in version 0.??.0"

## Introduction

The command palette provides a system-wide facility for searching for and
executing commands. These commands are added by creating command source
classes and declaring them on your [application](../../guide/app/) or your
[screens](../../guide/screens/).

Note that `CommandPalette` itself isn't designed to be used directly in your
applications; it is instead something that is enabled by default and is made
available by the Textual [`App`][textual.app.App] class. If you wish to
disable the availability of the command palette you can set the
[`use_command_palette`][textual.app.App.use_command_palette] switch to
`False`.

## Creating a command source

To add your own command source to the Textual command palette you start by
creating a class that inherits from
[`CommandSource`][textual.command_palette.CommandSource]. Your new command
source class should implement the
[`hunt_for`][textual.command_palette.CommandSource.hunt_for] method. This
should be an `async` method which `yield`s instances of
[`CommandSourceHit`][textual.command_palette.CommandSourceHit].

For example, suppose we wanted to create a command source that would look
through the globals in a running application and use
[`notify`][textual.app.App.notify] to show the docstring (admittedly not the
most useful command source, but illustrative of a source of text to match
and code to run).

The command source might look something like this:

```python
class PythonGlobalSource(CommandSource):
    """A command palette source for globals in an app."""

    async def hunt_for(self, user_input: str) -> CommandMatches:
        # Create a fuzzy matching object for the user input.
        matcher = self.matcher(user_input)
        # Looping throught the available globals...
        for name, value in globals().items():
            # Get a match score for the name.
            match = matcher.match(name)
            # If the match is above 0...
            if match:
                # ...pass the command up to the palette.
                yield CommandSourceHit(
                    # The match score.
                    match,
                    # A highlighted version of the matched item,
                    # showing how and where it matched.
                    matcher.highlight(name),
                    # The code to run. Here we'll call the Textual
                    # notification system and get it to show the
                    # docstring for the chosen item, if there is
                    # one.
                    self.run(
                        self.app.notify,
                        value.__doc__ or "[i]Undocumented[/i]",
                        title=name
                    ),
                    # The plain text that was selected.
                    name
                )
```

!!! important

    The command palette populates itself asynchronously, pulling matches from
    all of the active sources. Your command source `hunt_for` method must be
    `async`, and must not block in any way; doing so will affect the
    performance of the user's experience while using the command palette.

The key point here is that the `hunt_for` method should look for matches,
given the user input, and yield up a
[`CommandSourceHit`][textual.command_palette.CommandSourceHit], which will
contain the match score (which should be between 0 and 1), a Rich renderable
(such as a [rich Text object][rich.text.Text]) to illustrate how the command
was matched (this appears in the drop-down list of the command palette), a
reference to a function to run when the user selects that command, and the
plain text version of the command.

## API documentation

::: textual.command_palette

Commit message:

Rename hunt_for to search_for
Sounds a lot less dramatic but... okay, fair enough.

docs/api/command_palette.md, after:

!!! tip "Added in version 0.??.0"

## Introduction

The command palette provides a system-wide facility for searching for and
executing commands. These commands are added by creating command source
classes and declaring them on your [application](../../guide/app/) or your
[screens](../../guide/screens/).

Note that `CommandPalette` itself isn't designed to be used directly in your
applications; it is instead something that is enabled by default and is made
available by the Textual [`App`][textual.app.App] class. If you wish to
disable the availability of the command palette you can set the
[`use_command_palette`][textual.app.App.use_command_palette] switch to
`False`.

## Creating a command source

To add your own command source to the Textual command palette you start by
creating a class that inherits from
[`CommandSource`][textual.command_palette.CommandSource]. Your new command
source class should implement the
[`search_for`][textual.command_palette.CommandSource.search_for] method. This
should be an `async` method which `yield`s instances of
[`CommandSourceHit`][textual.command_palette.CommandSourceHit].

For example, suppose we wanted to create a command source that would look
through the globals in a running application and use
[`notify`][textual.app.App.notify] to show the docstring (admittedly not the
most useful command source, but illustrative of a source of text to match
and code to run).

The command source might look something like this:

```python
class PythonGlobalSource(CommandSource):
    """A command palette source for globals in an app."""

    async def search_for(self, user_input: str) -> CommandMatches:
        # Create a fuzzy matching object for the user input.
        matcher = self.matcher(user_input)
        # Looping throught the available globals...
        for name, value in globals().items():
            # Get a match score for the name.
            match = matcher.match(name)
            # If the match is above 0...
            if match:
                # ...pass the command up to the palette.
                yield CommandSourceHit(
                    # The match score.
                    match,
                    # A highlighted version of the matched item,
                    # showing how and where it matched.
                    matcher.highlight(name),
                    # The code to run. Here we'll call the Textual
                    # notification system and get it to show the
                    # docstring for the chosen item, if there is
                    # one.
                    self.run(
                        self.app.notify,
                        value.__doc__ or "[i]Undocumented[/i]",
                        title=name
                    ),
                    # The plain text that was selected.
                    name
                )
```

!!! important

    The command palette populates itself asynchronously, pulling matches from
    all of the active sources. Your command source `search_for` method must be
    `async`, and must not block in any way; doing so will affect the
    performance of the user's experience while using the command palette.

The key point here is that the `search_for` method should look for matches,
given the user input, and yield up a
[`CommandSourceHit`][textual.command_palette.CommandSourceHit], which will
contain the match score (which should be between 0 and 1), a Rich renderable
(such as a [rich Text object][rich.text.Text]) to illustrate how the command
was matched (this appears in the drop-down list of the command palette), a
reference to a function to run when the user selects that command, and the
plain text version of the command.

## API documentation

::: textual.command_palette
