docs/getting_started.md, before:

All you need to get started building Textual apps.

## Requirements

Textual requires Python 3.8 or later (if you have a choice, pick the most recent Python). Textual runs on Linux, macOS, Windows and probably any OS where Python also runs.

!!! info inline end "Your platform"

    ### :fontawesome-brands-linux: Linux (all distros)

    All Linux distros come with a terminal emulator that can run Textual apps.

    ### :material-apple: macOS

    The default terminal app is limited to 256 colors. We recommend installing a newer terminal such as [iterm2](https://iterm2.com/), [Kitty](https://sw.kovidgoyal.net/kitty/), or [WezTerm](https://wezfurlong.org/wezterm/).

    ### :material-microsoft-windows: Windows

    The new [Windows Terminal](https://apps.microsoft.com/store/detail/windows-terminal/9N0DX20HK701?hl=en-gb&gl=GB) runs Textual apps beautifully.

## Installation

Here's how to install Textual.

### From PyPI

You can install Textual via PyPI, with the following command:

```
pip install textual
```

If you plan on developing Textual apps, you should also install textual developer tools:

```
pip install textual-dev
```

### From conda-forge

Textual is also available on [conda-forge](https://conda-forge.org/). The preferred package manager for conda-forge is currently [micromamba](https://mamba.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation/micromamba-installation.html):

```
micromamba install -c conda-forge textual
```

And for the textual developer tools:

```
micromamba install -c conda-forge textual-dev
```

### Textual CLI

If you installed the developer tools you should have access to the `textual` command. There are a number of sub-commands available which will aid you in building Textual apps. Run the following for a list of the available commands:

```bash
textual --help
```

See [devtools](guide/devtools.md) for more about the `textual` command.

## Demo

Once you have Textual installed, run the following to get an impression of what it can do:

```bash
python -m textual
```

If Textual is installed you should see the following:

```{.textual path="src/textual/demo.py" columns="127" lines="53" press="enter,tab,w,i,l,l"}
```

## Examples


The Textual repository comes with a number of example apps. To try out the examples, first clone the Textual repository:

=== "HTTPS"

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/Textualize/textual.git
    ```

=== "SSH"

    ```bash
    git clone git@github.com:Textualize/textual.git
    ```

=== "GitHub CLI"

    ```bash
    gh repo clone Textualize/textual
    ```


With the repository cloned, navigate to the `/examples/` directory where you will find a number of Python files you can run from the command line:

```bash
cd textual/examples/
python code_browser.py ../
```




## Need help?

See the [help](./help.md) page for how to get help with Textual, or to report bugs.

Commit message:

Mention more source examples, as discussed in discussion #4653, point 1.

docs/getting_started.md, after:

All you need to get started building Textual apps.

## Requirements

Textual requires Python 3.8 or later (if you have a choice, pick the most recent Python). Textual runs on Linux, macOS, Windows and probably any OS where Python also runs.

!!! info inline end "Your platform"

    ### :fontawesome-brands-linux: Linux (all distros)

    All Linux distros come with a terminal emulator that can run Textual apps.

    ### :material-apple: macOS

    The default terminal app is limited to 256 colors. We recommend installing a newer terminal such as [iterm2](https://iterm2.com/), [Kitty](https://sw.kovidgoyal.net/kitty/), or [WezTerm](https://wezfurlong.org/wezterm/).

    ### :material-microsoft-windows: Windows

    The new [Windows Terminal](https://apps.microsoft.com/store/detail/windows-terminal/9N0DX20HK701?hl=en-gb&gl=GB) runs Textual apps beautifully.

## Installation

Here's how to install Textual.

### From PyPI

You can install Textual via PyPI, with the following command:

```
pip install textual
```

If you plan on developing Textual apps, you should also install textual developer tools:

```
pip install textual-dev
```

### From conda-forge

Textual is also available on [conda-forge](https://conda-forge.org/). The preferred package manager for conda-forge is currently [micromamba](https://mamba.readthedocs.io/en/latest/installation/micromamba-installation.html):

```
micromamba install -c conda-forge textual
```

And for the textual developer tools:

```
micromamba install -c conda-forge textual-dev
```

### Textual CLI

If you installed the developer tools you should have access to the `textual` command. There are a number of sub-commands available which will aid you in building Textual apps. Run the following for a list of the available commands:

```bash
textual --help
```

See [devtools](guide/devtools.md) for more about the `textual` command.

## Demo

Once you have Textual installed, run the following to get an impression of what it can do:

```bash
python -m textual
```

If Textual is installed you should see the following:

```{.textual path="src/textual/demo.py" columns="127" lines="53" press="enter,tab,w,i,l,l"}
```

## Examples


The Textual repository comes with a number of example apps. To try out the examples, first clone the Textual repository:

=== "HTTPS"

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/Textualize/textual.git
    ```

=== "SSH"

    ```bash
    git clone git@github.com:Textualize/textual.git
    ```

=== "GitHub CLI"

    ```bash
    gh repo clone Textualize/textual
    ```


With the repository cloned, navigate to the `/examples/` directory where you will find a number of Python files you can run from the command line:

```bash
cd textual/examples/
python code_browser.py ../
```

Also, the tree of directories under `docs/examples/` contains hundreds of examples for all parts of Textual. 


## Need help?

See the [help](./help.md) page for how to get help with Textual, or to report bugs.
